.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:56:43 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Added history, aeb, 980113.
.\"
.\" NOTE: This function wasn't written by GNU. I only use this manual page fpr
.\" documentate this function because of the similarity to strstr- In fact
.\" I wanted to create a function that behaves the same way. For more informations
.\" about GNU visit http://www.gnu.org
.TH "STRRSTR" "3" "Februar 2005" "Version 0.0.1" "Linux Programmer's Manual -- Safe Strings Library"
.SH NAME
strrstr \- locate a substring
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "char* strrstr(const char* " haystack ", const char* " needle );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBstrstr()\fP function finds the last occurrence of the substring
\fIneedle\fP in the string \fIhaystack\fP.  The terminating `\\0'
characters are not compared.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The \fBstrstr()\fP function returns a pointer to the beginning of the
substring, or NULL if the substring is not found or one of \fIhaystack\fR and \fIneedle\fR
is NULL.
.SH BUGS
I don't know about any bugs. But I would be very happy to know one if you find one. Please report bugs at
pabloy@pcpool.mathematik.uni-freiburg.de
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR index (3),
.BR memchr (3),
.BR rindex (3),
.BR strchr (3),
.BR strpbrk (3),
.BR strsep (3),
.BR strspn (3),
.BR strtok (3)

